
1. SHE WALKS IN BEAUTY by Lord Byron
She walks in beauty, like the night.
Of cloudless climes and starry skies.
And all that’s best of dark and bright.
Meet in her aspect and her eyes.
Thus mellowed to that tender light.
Which heaven to gaudy day denies.

2. SONNET 18 by William Shakespeare
Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?
Thou art more lovely and more temperate.
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May.
And summer’s lease hath all too short a date.
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines.
And often is his gold complexion dimm'd.
And every fair from fair sometime declines.
By chance, or nature’s changing course, untrimm'd.

3. HOW DO I LOVE THEE? (SONNET 43) by Elizabeth Barrett Browning
How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.
I love thee to the depth and breadth and height.
My soul can reach, when feeling out of sight.
For the ends of being and ideal grace.
I love thee to the level of every day's.
Most quiet need, by sun and candle-light.

4. A RED, RED ROSE by Robert Burns
O my Luve is like a red, red rose.
That’s newly sprung in June.
O my Luve is like the melody.
That’s sweetly played in tune.
So fair art thou, my bonnie lass.
So deep in luve am I.
And I will luve thee still, my dear.
Till a’ the seas gang dry.

5. ANNABEL LEE by Edgar Allan Poe
It was many and many a year ago.
In a kingdom by the sea.
That a maiden there lived whom you may know.
By the name of Annabel Lee.
And this maiden she lived with no other thought.
Than to love and be loved by me.

6. WHEN YOU ARE OLD by W.B. Yeats
When you are old and grey and full of sleep.
And nodding by the fire, take down this book.
And slowly read, and dream of the soft look.
Your eyes had once, and of their shadows deep.
How many loved your moments of glad grace.
And loved your beauty with love false or true.
But one man loved the pilgrim soul in you.
And loved the sorrows of your changing face.

7. LOVE'S PHILOSOPHY by Percy Bysshe Shelley
The fountains mingle with the river.
And the rivers with the ocean.
The winds of heaven mix for ever.
With a sweet emotion.
Nothing in the world is single.
All things by a law divine.
In one spirit meet and mingle.
Why not I with thine?

8. BRIGHT STAR by John Keats
Bright star, would I were stedfast as thou art.
Not in lone splendour hung aloft the night.
And watching, with eternal lids apart.
Like nature's patient, sleepless Eremite.
The moving waters at their priestlike task.
Of pure ablution round earth's human shores.

9. SONNET 116 by William Shakespeare
Let me not to the marriage of true minds.
Admit impediments. Love is not love.
Which alters when it alteration finds.
Or bends with the remover to remove.
O no! it is an ever-fixed mark.
That looks on tempests and is never shaken.
It is the star to every wandering bark.
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.

10. REMEMBER by Christina Rossetti
Remember me when I am gone away.
Gone far away into the silent land.
When you can no more hold me by the hand.
Nor I half turn to go yet turning stay.
Remember me when no more day by day.
You tell me of our future that you plann'd.

11. WILD NIGHTS - WILD NIGHTS! by Emily Dickinson
Wild nights - Wild nights!
Were I with thee.
Wild nights should be.
Our luxury!
Futile - the winds.
To a Heart in port.
Done with the Compass.
Done with the Chart!

12. I AM NOT YOURS by Sara Teasdale
I am not yours, not lost in you.
Not lost, although I long to be.
Lost as a candle lit at noon.
Lost as a snowflake in the sea.
You love me, and I find you still.
A spirit beautiful and bright.
Yet I am I, who long to be.
Lost as a light is lost in light.

13. MEETING AT NIGHT by Robert Browning
The grey sea and the long black land.
And the yellow half-moon large and low.
And the startled little waves that leap.
In fiery ringlets from their sleep.
As I gain the cove with pushing prow.
And quench its speed in the slushy sand.

14. SONNET 30 by Edmund Spenser
My love is like to ice, and I to fire.
How comes it then that this her cold so great.
Is not dissolved through my so hot desire.
But harder grows the more I her entreat?
Or how comes it that my exceeding heat.
Is not allayed by her heart-frozen cold.
But that I burn much more in boiling sweat.
And feel my flames augmented manifold?

15. THE SUN RISING by John Donne
Busy old fool, unruly sun.
Why dost thou thus.
Through windows, and through curtains call on us?
Must to thy motions lovers' seasons run?
Saucy pedantic wretch, go chide.
Late school boys and sour prentices.
Go tell court huntsmen that the king will ride.
Call country ants to harvest offices.
Love, all alike, no season knows nor clime.
Nor hours, days, months, which are the rags of time.

16. THE PASSIONATE SHEPHERD TO HIS LOVE by Christopher Marlowe
Come live with me and be my love.
And we will all the pleasures prove.
That Valleys, groves, hills, and fields.
Woods, or steepy mountain yields.
And we will sit upon the Rocks.
Seeing the Shepherds feed their flocks.

17. SONG: TO CELIA by Ben Jonson
Drink to me only with thine eyes.
And I will pledge with mine.
Or leave a kiss but in the cup.
And I’ll not look for wine.
The thirst that from the soul doth rise.
Doth ask a drink divine.
But might I of Jove’s nectar sup.
I would not change for thine.

18. SO, WE'LL GO NO MORE A ROVING by Lord Byron
So, we'll go no more a roving.
So late into the night.
Though the heart be still as loving.
And the moon be still as bright.
For the sword outwears its sheath.
And the soul wears out the breast.
And the heart must pause to breathe.
And love itself have rest.

19. TO HELEN by Edgar Allan Poe
Helen, thy beauty is to me.
Like those Nicéan barks of yore.
That gently, o'er a perfumed sea.
The weary, way-worn wanderer bore.
To his own native shore.
On desperate seas long wont to roam.
Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face.
Thy Naiad airs have brought me home.

20. SONNET 14 by Elizabeth Barrett Browning
If thou must love me, let it be for nought.
Except for love's sake only. Do not say.
"I love her for her smile—her look—her way.
Of speaking gently,—for a trick of thought.
That falls in well with mine, and certes brought.
A sense of pleasant ease on such a day."

21. ECHO by Christina Rossetti
Come to me in the silence of the night.
Come in the speaking silence of a dream.
Come with soft rounded cheeks and eyes as bright.
As sunlight on a stream.
Come back in tears.
O memory, hope, love of finished years.

22. NEVER GIVE ALL THE HEART by W.B. Yeats
Never give all the heart, for love.
Will hardly seem worth thinking of.
To passionate women if it seem.
Certain, and they never dream.
That it fades out from kiss to kiss.
For everything that’s lovely is.
But a brief, dreamy, kind delight.

23. LET IT BE FORGOTTEN by Sara Teasdale
Let it be forgotten, as a flower is forgotten.
Forgotten as a fire that once was singing gold.
Let it be forgotten for ever and ever.
Time is a kind friend, he will make us old.
If anyone asks, say it was forgotten.
Long and long ago.
As a flower, as a fire, as a hushed footfall.
In a long-forgotten snow.

24. NOW SLEEPS THE CRIMSON PETAL by Alfred, Lord Tennyson
Now sleeps the crimson petal, now the white.
Nor waves the cypress in the palace walk.
Nor winks the gold fin in the porphyry font.
The fire-fly wakens: waken thou with me.
Now droops the milk-white peacock like a ghost.
And like a ghost she glimmers on to me.

25. WHEN WE TWO PARTED by Lord Byron
When we two parted.
In silence and tears.
Half broken-hearted.
To sever for years.
Pale grew thy cheek and cold.
Colder thy kiss.
Truly that hour foretold.
Sorrow to this.

26. A BROKEN APPOINTMENT by Thomas Hardy
You did not come.
And marching Time drew on, and wore me numb.
Yet less for loss of your dear presence there.
Than that I thus found lacking in your make.
That high compassion which can overbear.
Reluctance for pure lovingkindness’ sake.
Grieved I, when, as the hope-hour stroked its sum.
You did not come.

27. LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP by Emily Brontë
Love is like the wild rose-briar.
Friendship like the holly-tree.
The holly is dark when the rose-briar blooms.
But which will bloom most constantly?
The wild rose-briar is sweet in spring.
Its summer blossoms scent the air.
Yet wait till winter comes again.
And who will call the wild-briar fair?

28. FIRST LOVE by John Clare
I ne'er was struck before that hour.
With love so sudden and so sweet.
Her face it bloomed like a sweet flower.
And stole my heart away complete.
My face turned pale as deadly pale.
My legs refused to walk away.
And when she looked, what could I ail?
My life and all seemed turned to clay.

29. I LOVE YOU by Ella Wheeler Wilcox
I love your lips when they’re wet with wine.
And red with a wild desire.
I love your eyes when the lovelight lies.
Lit with a passionate fire.
I love your arms when the warm white flesh.
Touches mine in a fond embrace.
I love your hair when the strands enmesh.
Your kisses against my face.

30. TO MY DEAR AND LOVING HUSBAND by Anne Bradstreet
If ever two were one, then surely we.
If ever man were loved by wife, then thee.
If ever wife was happy in a man.
Compare with me ye women if you can.
I prize thy love more than whole mines of gold.
Or all the riches that the East doth hold.
My love is such that rivers cannot quench.
Nor ought but love from thee give recompense.